---
layout: post
title: Fly-By-Feel Helicopter Blade
tags: [Fly-By-Feel, Helicopter, Blade]
color: rgb(250, 50, 50)
feature-img: "assets/img/feature-img/caseII_setup (1).png"
thumbnail: "assets/img/feature-img/caseII_setup (1).png"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

---
## Objective

In this work, a unified framework integrating global and local SHM methods for structural health monitoring (SHM) of aerospace
structures is proposed. This framework integrates both “local” ultrasonic-
guided wave-based and “global” vibration-based SHM schemes for tackling damage detection, identification, and quantification under uncertainties. To achieve that, two modeling methods are applied including (i)
the variational auto-encoder (VAE) latent space to represent the ultra-
sonic guided wave (GW) propagation, and (ii) auto-regressive models
with exogenous excitation (ARX) models to capture low-frequency vibrations. Subsequent damage identification and quantification are performed based on a feed-forward neural network (FFNN) mapping the
AE latent space representation and structural dynamics extracted by
ARX models to the damage state. The complete experimental evaluation and assessment of the proposed framework are presented for an
Airbus H125 helicopter blade under both low-frequency vibrations and
ultrasonic guided-waves for SHM. Estimation results are compared with
previous publications with single source of vibration or GW data.

## Method

* ARX model for vibration signals
* Encoder for guided wave signals
* VAE as fusion technique

The flowchart of the proposed scheme can be found in the following figure:

{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/flch3.png" %}

## Experimental Setup

Overall setup:
{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/caseII_setup (1).png" %}

An Airbus H125 helicopter blade was used throughout the experiment. The blade weights 31.15 kg with a total span length of 4.7 m (3.9 m aerodynamic section) and a 0.3 m chord. The blade surface is made by glass fiber with moltoprene foam core. Both high-frequency ultrasonic guided waves responses and low-frequency vibration responses were collected under various structural states to create a database for subsequent model training and verification.


Sample signals:
* High-frequency signal:
{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/sample_signal_path_8 (2).png" %}
* Low-frequency signal:
{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/NP_FRF_N65536_out14_cs7_CI.png" %}

## Results

* Sample state prediction results:
{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/err_bar_p_1_bar102.png" %}



<!-- [^1]:
    {% include citation.html key="ref1" %} -->
