---
layout: post
title: Multi-fidelity Gaussian Process Regression Model
tags: [Multi-fidelity, Gaussian Process]
color: rgb(250, 50, 50)
feature-img: "assets/img/feature-img/gp4.png"
thumbnail: "assets/img/feature-img/gp4.png"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

---
Bayesian approach provides event probability given prior knowledge of the data. This property can
be naturally adopted with Gaussian process regression. Multi-fidelity GPRM which is a variate
of conventional Gaussian regression process embraces this nice property as well. Other than merely
providing an estimation of target value, such models are also able to predict the confidence interval
of the estimation which gives the potential to further refine the model with methods such as active
learning.

In this paper, a two-level fidelity model has been applied since the database contains two sources
of data, i.e., simulated and experimental data. The ground truth mapping of model inputs (damage
states) to outputs (DI values) of the two sources are represented by 𝑓1 (x) and 𝑓2 (x) respectively.
The basic assumption is, one mapping can be obtained by implementing a linear operator with
respect to the other. Though the actual relationship can be more complex than linearity, the results
show that such an assumption can still give better predictions compared to the standard Gaussian
process estimation.

## SoTA & Challenges

{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp1.png" %}
{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp2.png" %}
## Main Contributions

{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp3.png" %}

## Flowchart

{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp4.png" %}

## Setup

{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp5.png, feature-img/feature-img/gp6.png" column=2 %}
{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp7.png, feature-img/feature-img/gp8.png" column=2 %}

## Combination with Active Learning

{% include aligner.html images="feature-img/feature-img/gp9.png, feature-img/feature-img/gp10.png" column=2 %}
